Polygon deplyment (#239)
UMAprotocol/docs: docs/developers/deploy-on-polygon.md

Note: these additional dependencies are required -- you may or may not have them on your system already:

- libudev
- libusb

These dependencies are installed on MacOS by installing the XCode Developer Tools. For Linux, the example ubuntu installation command for additional deps is:

```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y libudev-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev
```
## Setting your parameters

Each deployment requires the following parameters to be set at the point of deployment. 

### Deployment parameters

- `gasprice:` The gas price used for your contract deployment  
- `url:` your node URL. In the case for Polygon deployments, you can use the Polygon Node URL.
- `mnemonic:` Your 12 word seed phrase or mnemonic 
- `lspCreatorAddress:` The contract factory address used to deploy your LSP.
- `expirationTimestamp:` Timestamp at which your contract will expire 
- `collateralPerPair:` The amount of collateral required to mint each long and short pair. Default set to `1000000000000000000` 
- `priceIdentifier"` The approved price identifier to be used  
- `collateralToken:` Collateral currency to be used to be deposited 

> - `syntheticName:` The long name of the token

Reviewer: Once we deploy the new creators, we'll need to remember to update these params

- `syntheticSymbol:` The short name of the token or ticker symbol
- `financialProductLibrary:` The financial library your contract will use to calculate the payment at expiry. For the list of the available financial product libraries we have available, you can go [here](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/tree/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/common/financial-product-libraries/long-short-pair-libraries).

## Deploying on Mumbai

Before running this command, you should customize the parameters to your needs. YOUR_NODE_URL should be filled in with a url for the network that you wish to deploy to and the `LongShortPairCreator` value should be substituted with the creator address on that same network. Added to that you should also choose the corresponding financial product library (FPL) that makes sense for your use case. The script has been pre-filled with the FPL for the covered call options

All the required Mumbai addresses can be seen on our [Github repo](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/networks/80001.json) with the most important items in the list for specific launch are:

> - `Mumbai LongShortPairCreator` 

Reviewer: This should just be the contract name.

```suggestion
- `LongShortPairCreator` 
```

```bash
https://polygon-mumbai.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

Run the deployment script with your specific parameters.
```bash
node index.js --gasprice 1 --url YOUR_NODE_URL --mnemonic "your mnemonic (12 word seed phrase)" --lspCreatorAddress 0x6883FeB1c131F58C1Cd629289Da3dE0051d2aa0d --expirationTimestamp 1643678287 --collateralPerPair 1000000000000000000 --priceIdentifier ETHUSD --collateralToken 0xd0a1e359811322d97991e03f863a0c30c2cf029c --syntheticName "ETH 9000 USD Call [December 2021]" --syntheticSymbol ETHc9000-1221 --financialProductLibrary 0xc19B7EF43a6eBd393446F401d1eCFac01B181ac0
```
## Deploying to Polygon Mainnet

The method to deploy onto mainnet is the exact same as with Mumbai, with a few key items to note. Your `url`, `lspCreatorAddress` and `financialProductLibrary` will need to be amended for use on Polygon mainnet. Since the library addresses are different between the networks. 

All the required Polygon Mainnet addresses can be seen on our [Github repo](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/networks/137.json) with the most important items in the list for specific launch are:

> - `Polygon LongShortPairCreator` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `LongShortPairCreator` 
```

Reviewer: Actually I think it's worth removing just the specific contract listings since this is exactly the same as the mumbai listing.

Please note that the script will deploy to the network that your node URL is for. If using Infura for a Polygon deployment, `YOUR_NODE_URL` will follow this format:

```bash
wss://polygon-mainnet.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

If using Infura for a mainnet fork, `YOUR_NODE_URL` will follow this format:

```bash
https://polygon-mainnet.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

You can now run the deployment script. From within the `launch-lsp` directory, run:
```bash
node index.js --gasprice 20 --url YOUR_NODE_URL --mnemonic "your mnemonic (12 word seed phrase)" --lspCreatorAddress 0x3e665D15425fAee14eEF53B9caaa0762b243911a --expirationTimestamp 1643678287 --collateralPerPair 1000000000000000000 --priceIdentifier ETHUSD --collateralToken 0xd0a1e359811322d97991e03f863a0c30c2cf029c --syntheticName "ETH 9000 USD Call [December 2021]" --syntheticSymbol ETHc9000-1221 --financialProductLibrary 0x3F62D7F4Be7671cc93BCDFE7A3Dd900FEC4b5025
```
Once deployed, the script will list the address of your newly deployed LSP. A successful output will look like this:

```bash
Simulating Deployment...
Simulation successful. Expected Address: 0x44978157afE92c926619EBB54599bbc483eBe871
``` 

> ## Linking your Financial Product Library

Reviewer: Maybe a better title is: `Setting up your Financial Product Library`, since technically the linkage has already happened

Once your contract is deployed, you can head over the specific Financial Product Library your contract wants to use on [Polygonscan](https://polygonscan.com/). You need to link your newly deployed contract to the Financial Product Library. 

In the case of this launch demo, we used the `CoveredCallLongShortPairFinancialProductLibrary` to link the new LSP contract with a strike price. 

> In the `longShortPair address` field, you can put in your newly created LSP contract (output from the deployment script) and in the `strikePrice` you can put the strike price that the financial product library will use to calculate the valeu fo the long and short tokens (note: the stoke price should be converted to an 18 decimal number)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `longShortPair address` field, you can put in your newly created LSP contract (output from the deployment script) and in the `strikePrice` you can put the strike price that the financial product library will use to calculate the valeu fo the long and short tokens (note: the strike price should be converted to an 18 decimal number)
```

---
title: Deploying the LSP on Polygon
sidebar_label: Deploying the LSP on Polygon
---
UMA's infrastructure is also available on Polygon for developers to make use of as a scaling solution. The following will explain the details on how to deploy on Polygon. 

Deploying to Polygon follows a near-identical launch process as to launching any UMA contract on Ethereum. Using one of our launch repo's and amending the destination network, you can quickly deploy your contracts on Polygon.

> ## How UMA works on Polygon

Reviewer: This is great content! I think this section works better in `Understanding UMA` however, since you are giving a broad overview of how our polygon architecture works. Thoughts on separating out the `How UMA Works on Polygon` portion into its own page in `Understanding UMA`, and then only having the deployment tutorial here?

Author: Happy to move it across if we feel we need to, although I am not sure we are going to be keeping the `Understanding UMA` or am I wrong to assume that?

Reviewer: The name may change, but we'll always at least have an introductory "content explanation" section. We've always tried to keep the developer section geared towards immediately actionable tutorials etc, rather than explaining concepts here.

UMA makes use of an arbitrary message bridge that allows for two-way messages to pass between the Polygon network and Ethereum mainet. The message bridge makes use of the Polygon Arbitrary Message system, meaning it can be as trusted as the Polygon network itself. 

> UMA's Optimistic Oracle is used as the arbiter of price requests locally on the Polygon network. A request will ask the locally deployed Optimitic Oracle. If the proposal goes undisputed, then the result is deemed the accepted outcome. 

Reviewer: What does "locally deployed OO" mean? Locally usually means in a test environment on a developer's computer.

Author: changed

If the event is disputed, then the following steps will be taken to bridge the disputed result back to the final arbitator, the DVM:

> 1. A Polygon contract, such as a prediction market, needs a price to settle a payout. The contract expects to get this price from an optimistic oracle (“Polygon Oracle”).

Reviewer: Can you wrap all of the contract name references in backticks instead of quotes?

Author: done

2. For some reason, a user disagrees with the price returned by the Polygon Oracle and disputes the price.

> 3. The disputed price request is passed from the Polygon Oracle to a contract called the “Oracle Child Tunnel”, whose sole responsibility is to communicate with an “Oracle Root 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The disputed price request is passed from the Polygon Oracle to a contract called the “Oracle Child Tunnel”, whose sole responsibility is to communicate with the “Oracle Root Contract".
```

> 3. The disputed price request is passed from the Polygon Oracle to a contract called the “Oracle Child Tunnel”, whose sole responsibility is to communicate with an “Oracle Root 

Reviewer: Looks like 3 and 4 were not intended to be separated.

> 4. Tunnel” on the Ethereum network. The Child Tunnel relays the dispute to Ethereum mainnet to the Root Tunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Tunnel” on the Ethereum network. The Child Tunnel relays the dispute to Ethereum mainnet to the Oracle Root Tunnel.
```

> 5. The Oracle Root Tunnel has special permission to request a price from the DVM, where the familiar voting and resolution process occurs amongst UMA voting token holders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The Oracle Root Tunnel has special permission to request a price from the DVM, where the familiar voting and resolution process is performed by UMA voting token holders.
```

Once the DVM has resolved a price request, the outcome of the vote is pushed to Oracle Root Tunnel. It is important to note that the DVM is not aware of which chain the request came from, nor does it need to.
6. Like before, the Oracle Root Tunnel relays the result from the DVM to the Child Tunnel on Polygon.
7. Finally, the Oracle Child Tunnel then sends a message back to the Polygon Oracle

> 8. The outcome of the dispute is resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The outcome of the dispute is resolved and polygon based contracts can now used the resolved price.
```

![](/img/PolygonDispute.png)

> ## Deployment process

Reviewer: Do you think it is worth adding a "Check to make sure relevant price ids and collateral types are approved" steps? Like we have in the [launch-emp tutorial](https://docs-git-polygon-deplyment-uma.vercel.app/developers/emp-deployment#is-your-desired-price-identifier-and-collateral-type-supported)?

Author: Yea can do. Think we need to actually find a way to represent the subset of collateral addresses that are Polygon compatible or whitelisted. Adding this as a sub-task for me. 

I added just a boiler plate answer to this

Reviewer: Looks good!

At the end of this deployment process, you should have a deployed contract on Polygon mainnet or Mumbai testnet. The following is an overview of the deployment steps below.

1. Clone the repo
2. Install the dependencies
3. Set your parameters
5. Run the deployment on Mumbai testnet
6. Run the deployment on Polygon mainnet  
7. Connect to a financial product library  

## Clone the repo

1. Clone the repo:

 - [launch-lsp](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/launch-lsp)
```bash
 git clone https://github.com/UMAprotocol/launch-lsp.git
```
## Install the dependencies

You will need to install nodejs v14 (we recommend nvm to manage node versions) and yarn.

Note: these additional dependencies are required -- you may or may not have them on your system already:

- libudev
- libusb

These dependencies are installed on MacOS by installing the XCode Developer Tools. For Linux, the example ubuntu installation command for additional deps is:

```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y libudev-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev
```
## Setting your parameters

> It is important to understand that each contract requires the following parameters to be set at the point deployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each deployment requires the following parameters to be set at the point of deployment. 
```

> ### Long-Short-Pair parameters

Reviewer: Small thing, but some of these are not really long short pair parameters, so it may be confusing. Would probably be a better title just as "Deployment parameters".

Also - do you think this content needs to be here? To reduce redundancy, could this just point to this [section](https://docs-git-polygon-deplyment-uma.vercel.app/synthetic-tokens/long-short-pair#lsp-construction-parameters)?

Author: makes sense to change

- `gasprice:` The gas price used for your contract deployment  
- `url:` your node URL. In the case for Polygon deployments, you can use the Polygon Node URL.
- `mnemonic:` Your 12 word seed phrase or mnemonic 

> - `lspCreatorAddress:` The address used in deploying your LSP. The default is set to: `0x3e665D15425fAee14eEF53B9caaa0762b243911a`

Reviewer: I'd highly recommend removing any hardcoded contract addresses since they are changing pretty frequently. You can just point to the networks file for mumbai and polygon here. [Mumbai](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/networks/80001.json), [Polygon](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/networks/137.json)

```bash
wss://polygon-mumbai.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

If using Infura for a mainnet fork, `YOUR_NODE_URL` will follow this format:

```bash
https://polygon-mumbai.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

Run the deployment script with your specific parameters.
```bash
node index.js --gasprice 1 --url YOUR_NODE_URL --mnemonic "your mnemonic (12 word seed phrase)" --lspCreatorAddress 0x6883FeB1c131F58C1Cd629289Da3dE0051d2aa0d --expirationTimestamp 1643678287 --collateralPerPair 1000000000000000000 --priceIdentifier ETHUSD --collateralToken 0xd0a1e359811322d97991e03f863a0c30c2cf029c --syntheticName "ETH 9000 USD Call [December 2021]" --syntheticSymbol ETHc9000-1221 --financialProductLibrary 0xc19B7EF43a6eBd393446F401d1eCFac01B181ac0
```
## Deploying to Polygon Mainnet

The method to deploy onto mainnet is the exact same as with Mumbai, with a few key items to note. Your `url`, `lspCreatorAddress` and `financialProductLibrary` will need to be amended for use on Polygon mainnet. Since the library addresses are different between the networks. 

> All the required Polygon Mainnet addresses can be seen on our [Github repo](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/networks/137.json) however to give you a quick reference here are a few key contracts to use. 

Reviewer: Same thing about hardcoding contracts. I think this is just more confusing - since it is possible we will not have these always be up to date and should just have this github reference

Author: also changed

- `LinearLongShortPairFinancialProductLibrary:` 0xcFF28e9E83cEc1BCa8D8619dC7eA60244b433502
- `RangeBondLongShortPairFinancialProductLibrary:` 0x7A9Bbd278b40f90F1269cB3a9D94a63333febdD4

Please note that the script will deploy to the network that your node URL is for. If using Infura for a Polygon deployment, `YOUR_NODE_URL` will follow this format:

```bash
wss://polygon-mainnet.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

If using Infura for a mainnet fork, `YOUR_NODE_URL` will follow this format:

```bash
https://polygon-mainnet.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

You can now run the deployment script. From within the `launch-lsp` directory, run:
```bash
node index.js --gasprice 20 --url YOUR_NODE_URL --mnemonic "your mnemonic (12 word seed phrase)" --lspCreatorAddress 0x3e665D15425fAee14eEF53B9caaa0762b243911a --expirationTimestamp 1643678287 --collateralPerPair 1000000000000000000 --priceIdentifier ETHUSD --collateralToken 0xd0a1e359811322d97991e03f863a0c30c2cf029c --syntheticName "ETH 9000 USD Call [December 2021]" --syntheticSymbol ETHc9000-1221 --financialProductLibrary 0x3F62D7F4Be7671cc93BCDFE7A3Dd900FEC4b5025
```

> Once deployed, the script will list the address of your newly deployed EMP. A successful output will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once deployed, the script will list the address of your newly deployed LSP. A successful output will look like this:
```

```bash
Simulating Deployment...
Simulation successful. Expected Address: 0x44978157afE92c926619EBB54599bbc483eBe871
``` 
## Linking your Financial Product Library

Once your contract is deployed, you can head over the the specific Financial Product Library your contract wants to use on [Polygonscan](https://polygonscan.com/). You need to link your newly deployed contract to the Financial Product Library. 

In the case of this launch demo, we used the `CoveredCallLongShortPairFinancialProductLibrary:` 0x3F62D7F4Be7671cc93BCDFE7A3Dd900FEC4b5025 and will link the new contract with a given strike price. 

> ![](/img/PolygonFPL.png)

Reviewer: Can you explain what these parameters are? Also in the image, you show a strikePrice of 100 which would be a strike price of `0.0000000000000001` for ETHUSD, which may be a little confusing.

Author: Cool can change this image

6. Run the deployment on Polygon mainnet  
7. Connect to a financial product library  

### Is your desired price identifier and collateral type supported?

Please check with the UMA team if your collateral and price identifiers have been approved for use on Polygon. There will be a subset of commomly used collaterals that will be available on Polygon at launch. 

To add a new price identifier or collateral currency to Mumbai testnet, please contact the UMA team in Discord.

## Clone the repo

1. Clone the repo:

 - [launch-lsp](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/launch-lsp)
```bash
 git clone https://github.com/UMAprotocol/launch-lsp.git
```
## Install the dependencies

You will need to install nodejs v14 (we recommend nvm to manage node versions) and yarn.

Note: these additional dependencies are required -- you may or may not have them on your system already:

- libudev
- libusb

These dependencies are installed on MacOS by installing the XCode Developer Tools. For Linux, the example ubuntu installation command for additional deps is:

```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y libudev-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev
```
## Setting your parameters

> Each deployment requires the following parameters to be set at the point deployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each deployment requires the following parameters to be set at the point of deployment. 
```

### Deployment parameters

- `gasprice:` The gas price used for your contract deployment  
- `url:` your node URL. In the case for Polygon deployments, you can use the Polygon Node URL.
- `mnemonic:` Your 12 word seed phrase or mnemonic 

> - `lspCreatorAddress:` The address used in deploying your LSP. For exampple: `0x3e665D15425fAee14eEF53B9caaa0762b243911a`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `lspCreatorAddress:` The address used in deploying your LSP.
```

```bash
https://polygon-mainnet.infura.io/v3/{projectId}
```

You can now run the deployment script. From within the `launch-lsp` directory, run:
```bash
node index.js --gasprice 20 --url YOUR_NODE_URL --mnemonic "your mnemonic (12 word seed phrase)" --lspCreatorAddress 0x3e665D15425fAee14eEF53B9caaa0762b243911a --expirationTimestamp 1643678287 --collateralPerPair 1000000000000000000 --priceIdentifier ETHUSD --collateralToken 0xd0a1e359811322d97991e03f863a0c30c2cf029c --syntheticName "ETH 9000 USD Call [December 2021]" --syntheticSymbol ETHc9000-1221 --financialProductLibrary 0x3F62D7F4Be7671cc93BCDFE7A3Dd900FEC4b5025
```
Once deployed, the script will list the address of your newly deployed LSP. A successful output will look like this:

```bash
Simulating Deployment...
Simulation successful. Expected Address: 0x44978157afE92c926619EBB54599bbc483eBe871
``` 
## Linking your Financial Product Library

Once your contract is deployed, you can head over the specific Financial Product Library your contract wants to use on [Polygonscan](https://polygonscan.com/). You need to link your newly deployed contract to the Financial Product Library. 

> In the case of this launch demo, we used the `CoveredCallLongShortPairFinancialProductLibrary:` 0x3F62D7F4Be7671cc93BCDFE7A3Dd900FEC4b5025 and will link the new contract with a given strike price. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of this launch demo, we used the `CoveredCallLongShortPairFinancialProductLibrary` to link the new LSP contract with a strike price. 
```
